plan_to_beads/6_CREATE_BEADS.md, before:

---
allowed_transitions:
  - { tag: goto, target: 7_VALIDATE.md }
---
Now create all the beads specified in bead_list.md using the `bs` command.

**Step 1: Create all beads**

For each bead in bead_list.md:
1. Compose the bead's full description using the implementation plan, the bead's
   Work description, and the Codebase Notes section of bead_list.md (if present).
   The description is the complete prompt the bead receives — it runs in a fresh
   context with no memory of other beads. Make it self-contained: include specific
   file paths and function names so the bead can get to work immediately.
2. Create the bead using the `bs` command (use `bs --help` if needed to understand
   the command syntax)
3. Note the assigned bead identifier (e.g., bd-xk2a3)
4. Update bead_list.md to include the assigned identifier next to that bead

**Step 2: Set up all dependencies**

After ALL beads have been created and you have collected all their identifiers,
set up the dependencies between beads using the `bs` command and the identifiers
from bead_list.md.

STOP after creating all beads and dependencies. Do not validate them yet — that
happens in a later step.

Commit message:

Add not_ready/open bead creation sequencing
Beads with dependencies are now created with --status not_ready to
prevent workers from claiming them before their prerequisites are
registered. After all dependencies are wired up, they are flipped to
open. Validation checks that no beads remain in not_ready status.

Also fix README diagram to show identifier recording happens during
bead creation, not as a trailing step after dependencies are set up.

plan_to_beads/6_CREATE_BEADS.md, after:

---
allowed_transitions:
  - { tag: goto, target: 7_VALIDATE.md }
---
Now create all the beads specified in bead_list.md using the `bs` command.

**Step 1: Create all beads**

For each bead in bead_list.md:
1. Compose the bead's full description using the implementation plan, the bead's
   Work description, and the Codebase Notes section of bead_list.md (if present).
   The description is the complete prompt the bead receives — it runs in a fresh
   context with no memory of other beads. Make it self-contained: include specific
   file paths and function names so the bead can get to work immediately.
2. Create the bead using the `bs` command:
   - If the bead has **no dependencies**: create it normally (open by default)
   - If the bead **has dependencies**: create it with `--status not_ready` to
     prevent it from being claimed before its prerequisites are wired up:
     `bs add --status not_ready ...`
3. Note the assigned bead identifier (e.g., bd-xk2a3)
4. Update bead_list.md to include the assigned identifier next to that bead

**Step 2: Set up all dependencies**

After ALL beads have been created and you have collected all their identifiers,
set up the dependencies between beads using the `bs` command and the identifiers
from bead_list.md.

**Step 3: Open the dependent beads**

After ALL dependencies have been set up, flip each `not_ready` bead to `open`:
`bs edit <id> --status open`

This three-step sequence ensures no bead can be claimed before its prerequisites
are fully registered.

STOP after completing all three steps. Do not validate yet — that happens in a
later step.
